Icelandic haddock (*Melanogrammus aeglefinus*) is fairly abundant in the coastal waters around Iceland and is mostly limited to the Icelandic continental shelf, while 0-group and juveniles from the stock are occasionally found in East Greenland waters (ICES area 14). Apart from this, larval drifts links with other regions have not been found. In addition, minimal catches have been reported in area 14 (maximum of less than 10 tons in 2016). The nearest area to Iceland where haddock is found in reasonable abundance are in shallow Faroese waters, which constitutes as a separate stock. The two regions are separated by a wide and relatively deep ridge, an area where reporting of haddock catches is nonexistent, both commercially and scientifically. Tagging studies [@jonsson1996tagging] conducted between 1953 and 1965 showed no migrations of juvenile and mature fish outside of Icelandic waters, as most recaptures took place in the area of tagging (or adjacent areas) and on the spawning grounds south of Iceland. Information about stock structure (metapopulation) of haddock in Icelandic waters is limited.

The species is found all around the Icelandic coast, principally in the relatively warm waters off the west and south coast, in shallow waters (10-200 m depth). Spawning has historically been limited to the southern waters. Haddock is also found off the north coast and in warm periods a large part of the immature fish have been found north of Iceland. In recent years a larger part of the fishable stock has been found off the north coast of Iceland than in the last two decades of the 20th century.
